# ARienteering in Koç
An ARienteering app designed in my internship at KUSRP. I was the Unity Developer of my group.

Your goal while playing this AR game is to shoot all the balloons located in different parts of the Koç campus. There are 5 objectives that give you tips through your journey in Koç and once you locate the balloon - with the crosshair in the middle of the screen - you can aim at the balloons and shoot them.

We plan on adding a SQL data set to this project and use a computer to keep all the player's allocated time for completing the game. We hope this app will become a tradition in Koç University one day and the students can start their first day at school playing ARienteering rather than orienteering.

So what is in this project and how was the Unity development process?

There are two scenes in this project. First scene consist of the starting UI. You can learn more about the development team and rules there. I used On Click action in unity to create these buttons and work through the Canvas. Once you click start the AR scene stars. I used AR Foundation and ran my unity project on my Android phone with ARCore. The AR UI has several parts. The compass isn't the best yet shows the actual North. The arrow beside the compass works like a 3D game compass that doesn't actually show real North but rather a made up North. That made up North is the Mission (Balloon GameObjects) in this project. The enabling script helps to Destroy each ArrowScript GameObject once you shoot the balloon so the second Arrow Script that shows the second balloon instantiates. Also the Shoot script inside Assets folder destroys the Balloon GameObject by identifying the object with its given tag and your touch count. Since the shot occurs right at the center of the screen I’ve placed a crosshair to make the player aim easier at the balloons. When the balloon is shot the related checkpoint turns green also by the enabling script. The UI also includes a map of Koç University that you can Zoom to have a closer look. As the Unity developer my goal is to make this Map an object that you could both pan and zoom. Since I'm using the AR camera a perspective based script doesn't work and I actually made the zooming possible with changing the scale of the object. I'm still trying to develop the panning and I hope in future I would be able to implement the map to show the player's location on the map too. On the left bottom side of the screen there is a Settings button that opens up 3 options: Restart, Back and the Cheat Sheet. The Cheat Sheet shows where the allocated objectives are if the player gets too stuck. On the bottom center is a Timer that stops once all the balloons are shot or you go over 60 minutes. The timer has 4 parts: firstminute, secondminute, firstsecond and secondsecond. By enabling each change on the right time with the unity delta Time plugin the timer proceeds. In each case of the timer stopping also a Win or Lose screen pops up. Furthermore, for balloon spawning we used an AR + GPS plugin and determined our target’s place by 2 separate scripts. The first script allows you to spawn the object in the specific latitude and longitude while the second script creates a hotspot (4m radius) to show the balloon when you are close enough. Lastly, on the bottom right corner is the Objectives button that contains the necessary tips for the player to find the objectives.

With building this app I learned many functions of unity such as AR Session Origin, or AR Camera and even running my game on my phone! I'm glad to spend my summer weeks discovering Unity AR in depth.

